## Merck_Coding_Challenge
My name is Shaojun Sun. My resume has been loaded as "resume_software.doc". For the Merck_Coding_Challenge, please check my answers below:
### 1. Designing High-Throughput Chemistry and Biology Experiments
PyPlate is a Python package for designing high-throughput chemistry and biology experiments. Suppose that you need to screen conditions for 12 cross-coupling reactions of the form:

Ai + Bi → Ci

where Ai and Bi are starting materials, Ci is a product, and i runs from 1…12.  For each reaction, let Ai be the limiting reagent (0.1 mmol), add 1.1 equivalents of Bi, 10 mol% Pd(OAc)2, and 15 mol% of ligand. 

#### (a) [optional]: Screening a Common set of Conditions
>We aim to screen a common set of 2 **temperatures** (60 °C and 80 °C), 4 **solvents** (toluene, glyme, TBME, and dichloroethane), and 3 **ligands** (XPhos, SPhos, and dppf). 

**Solution for Requirement (a)**

The pyplate software package is a Python tool designed to facilitate the design and implementation of high-throughput chemistry and biology experiments. To display the results correctly. The following packages must be installed in your environment. 
   - python 3.10 or later
   - pyplate-hte 1.16.0 or later
   - Jupyter Notebook

For detailed information about how to screen **temperatures, solvents, ligands, and Ai_mw vs Bi_mw**, please refer to the "PyPlate_answer_a.ipynb" file.

#### (b): Explaining modification to PyPlate
>The goal is to explain how to modify PyPlate to incorporate a feature like **tags** containing customer-additional requirements.

**Solution for Requirement (b)**

To accommodate additional information based on customer-specific requirements, I introduce the concept of tags. Tags will be a list containing customer-required additional information, such as Ai_mw, Bi_mw, etc.

For detailed information about how to add **tags** into class **Substance**, please refer to the "PyPlate_answer_b.ipynb" file.

### 2. Parsing three folders of binary files generated by chromatography instruments
Belows are three folders with artificially generated and encoded chromatography data that need to be parsed:

#### (a) pear challenge (easy): time vs. intensity data
**Solution for Requirement (a)**

(i) examine the raw data

I used the command "format-hex pear | more" from Wondows PowerShell and discovered that the binary data is divided into three sections: header, body and footer.
1. Each value occupy 4 bytes
2. The header consists of 320 bytes with the "H   " repeating throughout.
3. The body contains 10000 pairs values, with each pair occupying 2 X 4 bytes.
4. The footer consists of 480 bytes with the "H   " repeating throughout.

The detailed information for the raw data listed in the table below:
| Name                           | Bytes    | Byte order       | Format   | 
| ------------------------------ | -------- | ---------------- | -------- |
| header                         | 320      |                  |          |
| body (10000 pairs)             | 80000    |                  |          |
| each pair (time, Intensity)    | 8        |                  |          |
| time                           | 4        | (<)little-endian | I(4)     |
| intensity                      | 4        | (<)little-endian | I(4)     |
| footer                         | 480      |                  |          |

(ii) determine how the data are stored in binary form

Up reviewing the "pear_original.csv" file, each line contains a pair of values (time, intensity), each value requiring 4 bytes. The header occupies 320 bytes with the "H   " repeating throughou, and the footer is 480 bytes with the "H   " repeating throughou.

(iii) write a Python program that converts the binary data into csv form (to parallel the provided csv)

To see the python script, please refer to "Chromatography_answer_a.py" and "chromatography.py" files.

#### (b) scale challenge (intermediate): time vs. wavelength vs. absorbance data
**Solution for Requirement (b)**

(i) examine the raw data

I used the command "format-hex scale | more" in Wondows PowerShell and found the following
1. The binary data is divided into two sections: header and body.
2. The header section contains 512 bytes.
3. The body section contains 1160430 bytes, beginning with "HH". The "HH" bytes repeat 12345 times.
4. Parsing the header revealed 5 values: 20, 190, 400, 10, and 12345.
   * 20 represents the factor.
   * 190 represents the start of wavelengths.
   * 400 represents the end of wavelengths.
   * 10 represents the increment for next wavelength.
   * 12345 represents the data length.
5. In body section, there are 12345 segments, each beginning with the bytes b'HH' and containing 94 bytes.

The detailed information for the raw data listed in the table below:
| Name                    | offset      | Byte order       | Format   | 
| ----------------------- | ----------- | ---------------- | -------- |
| factor                  | 128         | (>)big-endian    | h(2)     |
| start of wavelengths    | 256         | (>)big-endian    | h(2)     |
| end of wavelengths      | 258         | (>)big-endian    | h(2)     |
| increment               | 260         | (>)big-endian    | h(2)     |
| data length             | 384         | (>)big-endian    | h(2)     |
| start of body           | 512         | (>)big-endian    | h(2)     |
| mark in body data       |             | (>)big-endian    | cc(2)    |
| time in body data       |             | (<)little-endian | f(4)     |
| wavelength in body data |             | (>)big-endian    | i(4)     |

(ii) determine how the data are stored in binary form

Reviewing the corresponding "scare_original.csv", it contains 12345 lines. The header title lists wavelengths [190, 200, 210,...,400] each increasing by 10. This matches the observations from the header of binary data.

(iii) write a Python program that converts the binary data into csv form (to parallel the provided csv)

To see the python script, please refer to "Chromatography_answer_b.py" and "chromatography.py" files.

#### (c) sixtysix (hard – optional, for bonus points): time vs. mass vs. intensity data
**Solution for Requirement (c)**

(i) examine the raw data

The binary file "sixtysix.A" contains 54,320 bytes, which is ten times the number of lines in the CSV file "sixtysix_original.csv". It is divided into 5,432 segments, each 10 bytes long, containing 3 values. The first and second values occupy 4 bytes each, and the third value occupies 2 bytes. The first value indicates the number of bytes preceding the row. The second value represents time and can be calculated by dividing it by 60,001 and rounding the result. Third value represents the number of non-zero values in the current row defined by the second time value.

The binary file "sixtysix.B" contains 352,236 bytes. Each segment is 6 bytes long, resulting in a total of 58,706 segments. Referencing "sixtysix_original.csv," each segment in "sixtysix.B" consists of a pair of values: <mass (2 bytes), intensity (4 bytes)>.

The detailed information for the A binary data listed in the table below:
| Name                             | Bytes       | Byte order        | Format   | 
| -------------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| A file(5432 segments)            | 54320       |                   |          |
| Each segment in A file           | 10          |                   |          |
|    1.  f_value (bytes preceding  | 4           | (>)big-endian     | I(4)     |
|    2.  s_value (Time)            | 4           | (>)big-endian     | I(4)     |
|    3.  t_value (No mass types)   | 2           | (>)big-endian     | H(2)     |

The detailed information for the B binary data listed in the table below:
| Name                             | Bytes       | Byte order        | Format   | 
| -------------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| B file(58706 segment)            | 352236      |                   |          |
| Each segment in B file           | 6           |                   |          |
|    1.  f_value (mass type)       | 2           | (<))little-endian | H(2)     |
|    2.  s_value (intensity)       | 4           | (<))little-endian | I(4)     |


(ii) determine how the data are stored in binary form

Reviewing the corresponding "sixtysix_original.csv," it contains 5,432 lines. The "Time (min)" information is derived from the A file, and the number of lines in csv file matches the number of segments in the binary A file. The "Intensity" information is sourced from the B file.

(iii) write a Python program that converts the binary data into csv form (to parallel the provided csv)

To see the python script, please refer to "Chromatography_answer_c.py" and "chromatography.py" files.
